PHY\Phyneapple - an experimental framework for PHP 5.4+
================================================================================


Phyneapple is a smaller framework I built for side projects to use as an
alternative to [Symfony2](https://www.symfony2.org/). It doesn't compete with
Symfony2 or any other framework for the most part since it doesn't even have
simple routing patterns...

Install
-----

To install, run this up. And then add all your code into src.

```bash
composer create-project phy/phyneapple
```

Routing
-----

To keep it basic, routing works by mapping /:controller/:method
to a \PHY\Controller\{:controller}::{:method}_{:request_method}(). For example
doing a POST /user/login would load \PHY\Controller\User and then attempt to
call the method login_post(), if that doesn't exist it falls back to
login_get(), then index_post(), and then finally index_get(). That's how routing
works on face value.

Controllers
-----------

Controllers and routes are rolled into one, on top of that, routers have access
to the page's building blocks via \PHY\View\Layout, the page's request
\PHY\Request, and returns a \PHY\Response.

Views
-----

Views are influenced by Magento's blocks. However Magento uses XML and it's very
clunky. Which is with a good reason since it's highly customizable and once your
familiar with it, it's pretty sweet. Still, for smaller projects no XML and a
simpler structure was needed. So views are broken into blocks and are put
together using JSON config files.

Everything starts in design/default/www/config/default.json
which has a main "layout" class and all other blocks are children of "layout" or
its descending children and so forth. Configs can then overwrite any block from
design/default/www/config/default.json and there is some black magic to load
these config files if they exist, using the same routing method, our previous
/user/login will look for design/default/www/config/user/login.json and then
design/default/www/config/user/login.json unless you overwrite the config inside
of your action method.

Now, as for blocks themselves, they're just .phtml files which has variables
passed to them as basic variables. Also has access to $this, which correlates to
\PHY\View\AView and whatever type of View is extending that.

Quick example of how the .phtml file works.
```php
/*
 * in \PHY\Controller\Index::index_get()
 */
$this->getLayout()->getBlock('message', [
    'someVariable' => 'banana!'
]);

/*
 * in design/default/www/block/
 */
I passed variable "someVariable": <?=$someVariable?>

Here's a url builder: <a href="<?=$this->url('user/login')?>">Login</a>
```

Lastly about views. You can also have custom classes for your view blocks
instead of using a generic \PHY\View\Block. These are configured in the JSON
config files and the custom class just needs to implement \PHY\View\IBlock.

Model
-----

Models are made to quickly create a new table and add content without having to
manage everything on the database side. Model's themselves have their data
structures as a static protected value, $source, which can be retrieved via
Model::getSource(). With that, the DataMapper will read the $source and create a
compatible mapping to any database that's setup. Personally I'm writing the
MySQL and MongoDB connections but there's interfaces that can be used to write
your own mapper and inject it in.

AJAX Conscious
--------------

The framework itself is pretty conscious about AJAX requests. All models have a
helpful toArray() for easily building paths to models as well as AJAX friendly
responses for actions like Manager::{save, delete}(Model). For instance, on
Manager::save(Model) you'll get back a $response array that's looks like one of
these:

- Successful insert: ['status' => 200, 'response' => $insert_id]
- Successful update: ['status' => 204]
- Failed: ['status' => 500, 'response' => 'Error message']
- Failed Access Denied: ['status' => 403, 'response' => 'No permissions...']

With the response, there is a helper to see if a response is a success or not,
\PHY\Response::ok($response), which returns a true for 2xx status codes.

Security
--------
PHY\Phyneapple uses a pretty basic ACL Model that can check to see if a user or
their group is granted or denied access on any aspect of the site. Whether it's
viewing a page or editing a specific Model they're easy to get into the page.
Quick example

```php
namespace \PHY\Controller
class Check extends \PHY\Controller\AController {
    /**
     * This matches GET /check
     */
    public function index_get() {
        $app = $this->getApp();
        $user = $app->getUser();
        $authorize = $app->get('model/authorize')->loadByRequest('controller/check');
        if (!$authorize->exists()) {
            $authorize->request = 'controller/admin';
            $authorize->allow = 'admin super-admin';
            $authorize->deny = 'all';
            $authorize->save();
        }
        $authorize->setUser($user);
        if (!$authorize->isAllowed()) {
            $this->redirect('edgage');
        }
    }
}
```
Which would check to see if the logged in user has the group of 'admin' or
'super-admin' and if they don't then they'll be redirected as it has a deny all.

That example wasn't the greatest as there is already a check for
'controller/:controller/:method/:request_method',
'controller/:controller/:method', and 'controller/:controller' on page loads.
Although if no requests are found then it won't do anything, while in the
example it will create that authorize request for the immediate check and every
check afterwards (good way to have default ACLs in place without having to
manually write new ones anytime you want to flush the ACL table).

The only other major areas of security to know is that Phyneapple does work to
stop XSRF attacks and passwords are by default encrypted with bcrypt using
PHPass.

Registry Auto Magic
-------------------

MOSTLY GONE, REPLACED AS COMPONENTS. WHICH ARE STILL "MAGICAL"...

Reading Configs
---------------

Configs also use $app->get('config/:configFile'); where :configFile
matches a JSON file. You can also add config files into a nested folder
structure that matches any extra '/' in the get string. Now there is a little
more to that though, say you do:

```php
$config = $app->get('config/funny/jokes');
```

The Config component will first look for config/funny/jokes.json and return the
JSON as an associated array. If it can't find that file it will then attempt to
find config/funny.json and read into that file if it can. When it reads that
file it will try and match to {"jokes":{}}. Otherwise you'll get an exception
thrown.

About
-----

The original inspiration for this was back when I worked for [Lafango](http://lafango.com/).
While working there, things were starting to become super clunky as there were
several developers and we were all rewriting the same basic underlying
functionality. After awhile I got ticked off that our JS files were well over
2MBs as well as every new page we made or page we had to maintain had zero
consistency from file to file and even the front page HTML wasn't match.

This was during the mid 2000s around the same time Symfony2 was coming out, yet
with me being an idiot at the time, not being 100% familiar with frameworks, and
not wanting to battle with everybody else over the whole not built in house
mentality I had ended up spending a month or two writing the original version of
this framework. I Picked PHY_ as the namespace (it was PHP 5.2 then, no actual
namespaces yet) and at the time it did everything that was needed as creating
pages become extremely fast and since we were all developers we were all able to
use HTML elements via a Container class (not included in newer versions).

That was good since it covered about 95% of our HTML and JavaScript needs
(including turning any link/form to an AJAX call just by adding a class="ajax"
to it and using data-* attributes to designate how the AJAX should act before
and after making the response). So our global JS was now down to 100kb, page
generations were fast, and our pages all started to look like they were a
continual website. One other tidbit... That two month project also replaced a
lot of legacy coding styles between then four of us and completely got rid of
mysql_* and with the new models it took care of SQL injections when doing basic
load/saves of models (someone could have still written SQL injectible code yet
at that point I had been a watch dog just waiting...).

Requirements
------------

- PHP 5.4+
- PHY\Markup
- PHY\Variable
- [optional] PHY\Container

Submitting bugs and feature requests
------------------------------------

Please send bugs to me via
[GitHub](https://github.com/mullanaphy/phy/issues)

Author
------

John Mullanaphy - <john@jo.mu> - <http://jo.mu/>
That's it for now...

License
-------

PHY\Phyneapple is licensed under the Open Software License (OSL 3.0) -
see the `LICENSE` file for details

Acknowledgements
----------------

Lafango and the crew there for giving me a place to develop my personal skills
and build an earlier prototype of this project. While the current project only
takes inspiration from the original and every thing was rewritten, certain
things I try to keep close to it.

TODO
----

- Currently working on the Controller/Layout/Request/Response interaction
- Working on Models, in particular the DataMappers.
- Integrate MongoDB
- Tests, Tests, TESTS!
- Remove as much global state as possible leaving just the core global.